SCOPE: This Advanced Psychological Strategies
assessment exercise is a training manual used by
Night Office Asset Resource Management. The exercise
requires the use of a Personal Therapeutic
Construct, and all field operatives who undertake
this APS must have completed at least 36 hours of
PINEAL training in the creation of, management
of, and dismissal of self-actualized therapeutic
personalities.
This assessment tests the integrity of various
nth-dimensional sub-structures of the psychological
matrices, as well as the field operative’s
neural flexibility and capacity for mental peregrinations
without suffering psychotic degradation.
Results from this exercise will be tabulated into
a Mental Acuity and Psychological Stability score,
which will be recorded in the field operative’s Life
Integrity Existential Schematic.
Commentary in regards to the relative success or
failure of any given end point within this exercise
is provided to downplay any lasting mental,
emotional, physical, or psychological scarring
that may occur.
Night Office Asset Resource Management makes every
effort to keep these training manuals in accordance
with the most current policies, procedures,
and practical applications of relevant esoteric
knowledge, but Night Office Asset Resource Management
offers no assurances that materials are truly
up-to-date.
NIGHT OFFICE ASSET RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
FOR INTERNAL USE ONLY
DISCLAIMER: This Advanced Psychological Strategies
assessment exercise is intended to facilitate a
field operative’s exploration of workplace hazards,
mental health stressors, and other psychological
complexities that may present themselves during
the course of performing designated Night Office
tasks. While Night Office Asset Resource Management
has attempted to thoroughly address all possible
scenarios and outcomes of these psychological
assessment exercises, it is entirely likely
that new stressors, hazards, and other causes for
psychotic breaks may present themselves as a result
of, or during the process of, or in the aftermath
of completing this exercise. To the extend that
local, state, and federal guidelines, mandates,
and statutes regarding extra-terrestrial entities,
cosmic fungi, and other non-Euclidean monstrosities
even exist, Night Office Asset Resource Management
makes no guarantee that procedures, policies, and
practices as suggested in this assessment exercise
make any effort whatsoever to follow these existing
guidelines, mandates, and statutes. Nor does
Night Office Asset Resource Management assume any
responsibility—implied, implicit, or suggested to
the contrary—for psychological, physical, and/or
mental damage, grief, or distress a field operative
may incur as a result of, or during the process of,
or in the aftermath of completing this assessment
exercise.
NIGHT OFFICE ASSET RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
FOR INTERNAL USE ONLY
INSTRUCTIONS: This Night Office Asset Resource
Management Advanced Psychological Strategies
assessment exercise is a series of interwoven
narrative choices that will test your mental acuity
and psychological alacrity. At the end of each
passage, you will be provided with a variety of
narrative options. It is up to you to decide which
path is the correct path. You should continue to
explore the narrative branches until you reach an
end point, whereupon you will be provided with a
summary statement in regards to the assessment, as
well as a Mental Acuity and Psychological Stability
score.
Please refer to the Appendix upon completion of
this assessment for further details about your
MAPS score.
SHORT FORM ACKNOWLEDGMENT: The act of turning this
page is a tacit acknowledgment on the part of
the field operative that they are engaging in this
psychological assessment exercise and are doing so
of their own volition.
Field operatives further acknowledge that they are
not being forced to undertake this assessment as
a proxy agent for another individual, being, or
entity that might have co-opted their intelligence.
Read & Understood:
[ initials ]


THE
WHITE
ROOM
THE COLD EMPTY
6


START
It’s a terrible cliché to wake up in a white room, but that’s exactly where
you are. Though to be fair, it’s not really white. The privacy curtain
hiding you from the rest of the room is eggshell or taupe—one of those
colors. Maybe it’s the lighting? The walls aren’t much better. They remind
you of unfinished industrial projects or temporary warehousing. Field
hospital, a voice in your head says, which makes sense, given the privacy
curtain, the unforgiving mattress, and the metal-frame of the bed. Oh,
and the IV that’s drip-drip-dripping something into your arm.
The bag is nearly empty, which means you’ve been here for awhile.
That’s not good, you think.
The room is cold. Not in that “someone cranked the thermostat down
as a cost-cutting measure because that’s how this place operates” sort of
way, but in that “oh, this place hasn’t seen the sun in a long time, and
you will never get warm again” sort of way.
“Hello?” you call out.
There is no answer.
You’ve been here too long, the voice in your head says.
You struggle to remember what happened. Butterflies . . . ?
You’re on your own, the voice snaps. Ground yourself. Start with what
you know.
Right. Start with this room. This empty, boring room. That plastic
curtain. These walls . . .
No, no. Something more concrete. The blankets. Yes, start with the
blankets. Simple sensory data.
They’re nice and heavy, these blankets. Whoever runs this place didn’t
skimp there, at least. You lift the blanket and check that you’ve got arms
and legs. Yes, two of each. Good.
There’s a bandage around your left arm. Something happened? Yes,
something happened. Nothing else, though. No signs of staples or
stitches. No burn marks or sigil markings (which would be bad news).
Bruises on your thighs and on the inside of your arms, which isn’t any
worse than what you come home with after a serious night of sparring
at the gym.
THE COLD EMPTY
7
You check your head. Nothing feels out of place. No extra holes.
You’ve got all your hair; your head hasn’t been shaved in some strange
esoteric pattern. Your mouth is dry, but that’s no surprise, really. You
have all your teeth.
There’s no clear physical reason why you’re in this bed. The injury to
your forearm isn’t that bad.
Mental check, the voice suggests. Do you know who you are?
Night Office field operative. Closer. You are part of a standard
response team that was sent . . . where were you sent? It comes to you
after a moment. Ah, yes, Antarctica. You were sent to investigate a
non-responsive research station. You came with a guy named Argot and
a guy named Sagalico. You’re the second team, after . . .
What were their names? You just had them a minute ago. Bleeker?
No, Brinkmann. That’s right. Brinkmann, Peele, and Gull. They were
the first team. Your team was supposed to finish whatever . . .
And that’s when you realize why you’re in the bed. You don’t remember
the mission parameters beyond the simplest facts. In fact, you don’t
remember anything about what happened after you got to the station.
It’s all
(a white rabbit in a snowstorm)
a blank.
What was that? For a moment, you felt like you were someone else,
that you were somewhere else. It was a fleeting sensation, like someone
whispering in your head, and when you heard their words, you remembered
a different life. A different reality. A dream, but not a dream . . .
Well, whatever it is or was, at the very least, you’ve got short-term
amnesia, which is totally an occupational hazard. The brain tries to
forget things all the time. Usually it is terrible, terrible things that no
one should have to see the first time, much less remember later. You
had a couple of sessions about this sort of thing during Orientation
& Inoculation—the Night Office tries to give you some tools before it
sends you out to fight monstrosities from non-Euclidean dimensions.
These sessions taught you how to craft an imaginary friend, someone
who could act as a therapist and as a mental anchor for when you’re
deep in the mind-bending muck of a mission.
That’s the voice you hear in your head, in fact. Your imaginary pal is
droning on right now, pretending to be a tenured psychology professor:


It’s not that the human brain can’t process the enormity of cosmic indifference;
it’s that a very tiny part of the brain thinks it is a special snowflake.
This tiny blip of ego gets worked up when confronted with the rather vast
scale of the universe.
This sort of ad hoc therapy cuts down on the need for external psychological
assistance. It’s one thing to train people to fight unspeakable
monsters and tentacled space jellies. It’s another to train brain doctors
to help those traumatized by their jobs. In this instance, head shrinking
someone requires empathy and relevant experience, and if you’ve got
that, you’re more useful in the field than behind a desk.
At least, that’s the argument Expenditures, Accounts & Recovery
uses. Budgets should be squeezed, they like to say. Don’t make us squeeze
too hard.
So, yeah, take your licks, try not to lose your mind, and spend your
discretionary income on alcohol to kill the brain cells where horrible
memories are stored. Ah, short term memory purges.
Though, there are times—like now—when you wish you weren’t so
well trained at compartmentalization and purging.
Anyway, you’ve done a mental and physical situation report. Some
good news; some bad news. Might as well figure out what to do next
before your bladder wakes up. That bag of saline went somewhere . . .

You can throw off the covers, find some socks, and get on with things.
Hopefully, contextual clues will bring back what’s been locked away
before, you know, you do something stupid.
Go to 1.

Or, you can be a little more cautious and stay in bed awhile. Muster
some enthusiasm to rummage around the memory bins. But not too
long. You don’t want to tip over a container of really old memories.
Go to 2.
